It's done.
And 50 milliseconds, people,
here it comes at 50 milliseconds.
[COUGH] We're gonna get
at 15 milliseconds,
what function is going to be called back,
Alexa, into JavaScript?
>> dataToView.
>> dataToView, beautiful, and
told me through if you don't mind, Alexa,
the process of that.
So dataToView is gonna go where?
>> In the callback queue.
And then the event loop is gonna check
if our global code is done running,
which it is.
>> Perfect.
>> And if the call stack is empty,
which it is.
And then it will pop the data to view
function off of the callback queue and
push it onto the call stack.
>> Absolutely, fantastic.
Yeah, there it is, onto the call stack.
And pens are starting
to struggle a bit here.
Onto the call stack and that is where
it's gonna create, Alexa, what?
>> A new execution context.
>> Exactly, a new execution context,
which is going to do the job of
displaying, how's this gonna do.
Gonna do the job of displaying,
but we don't need that much.
It's a nice, clean, simple function,
it's gonna do the job of
displaying our data for the user.
Are we familiar with this now?
Are we bored with this?
Is this tedious?
You bet it is.
No, it's a big function.
Okay, I got that wrong.
You should have stopped me.
>> [LAUGH]
>> There we go
it's a big old function here.
Because we're now doing
anything that the user can see,
is gonna be produced inside this function.
And only produced if the user
is gonna see it in that moment.
Through this mental model, this
paradigmatic shift to anything user sees
that they could not see or
choose to change.
Must be dependent on underlying
data from a source of truth,
from a cause, a single cause,
which is JavaScript data in this case.
A simple piece of data post.
And everything inside that data to
view is basing itself off post.
Even where it's not in line 4,
implicitly it's saying produce
input under any value of post.
But we know it's all coming through
this one function based off our data in
JavaScript.
Which is kind of cool, by the way,
cuz it means we could potentially
describe in full as an intermediate step.
Before we actually add
those elements to the page,
we could describe them in
full in JavaScript first.
And maybe end up with a visual
representation of our DOM in JavaScript
first, which would be kind of cool,
kind of neat.
Okay, I didn't need
the word anyone's using.
All right, let's do that.
Let's start running data to view, and
bit more complex than we've done before.
Well, not really, but Alexa, let's go
through what the JS input assignment here
is doing,
>> Yes, so we're gonna reassign JS input
[COUGH] to the evaluated result of
invoking our create element method
on the document object,
>> Perfect, createElement,
with what argument?
>> The string input
>> Perfect, input, there it is.
And this is going to do,
can you talk me through the stages
inside of createElement here?
>> Yes, so
first we're gonna use the document
object's hidden link to find the DOM.
>> Link to the DOM.
>> And
then we're going to create an element.
>> Yeah.
>> That is the type input.
>> Yes, perfect, we'll put it right here.
It's not yet
on our appended list of elements.
It's not yet appended to the body, because
Java Script doesn't really do anything,
doesn't know where we
wanted to put that element.
I'll give it credit, it doesn't know
where we want to put that element..
HTML, we have a structure, it's gonna
appear in listed order down the page,
not in Java Script, we don't know where.
And if it wants to be a child element or
a sub-element or a nested element in HTML.
We put it inside of the element we want
it to be appended as a nested element to,
so lovely.
Does that happen in JavaScript?
You bet it does not.
So, yeah, would be nice if we
could get some emulation of that.
Wouldn't it be cool if we could
get some emulation of that?
In our JavaScript code, maybe a visual
representation in JavaScript of
the structure of our page,
but that we couldn't do that.
That sounds too much like a win.
That sounds too, yeah, okay, all right.
All right, good, so yeah,
we create input unattached right now and
we wanna be able to edit it though later,
Alexa, right?
So what do we, help me out here,
what do we get?
>> Also gonna get a JavaScript object
with a hidden link to that new
input,
>> Right,
>> Node on DOM,
>> Right, and also a bunch, yes, and
also a bunch of functions that
are useful for editing, updating,
adding handlers to the input node,
perfect.
Like on input like value, Yeah, so
that object is then going
to be stored in what?
Global, again for the purposes of easy
diagramming, what global variable.
>> JS input.
>> Perfect, there it is, so
let's draw it in full there.
It has, just remind me of
the methods available on it here.
>> Value on input.
>> I think that's it, because we're
doing a simplified version here.
No, these brews are very challenging.
There it is.
And it has a link, as we said,
to a newly created but not yet
displayed input element on the DOM,
input object.
Note people here, we are now not
seeing it immediately over here,
we are creating it from scratch.
We'd end up with exactly the same thing as
we would have by querying our HTML created
version of this input element,
nothing's different.
But we've now created it
from within JavaScript.
Which means the only difference
is now not already attached, and
therefore not already
showing up on the page.
To be fair, we don't know where
we want it to be attached.
We're gonna require, well, with JavaScript
we're gonna require imperatively
describing rather than declaratively by
showing where it is on the HTML file.
Describing its output,
where it's located on the page.
Instead we are going to have to
imperatively in JavaScript attach it.
And describe where it will capture,
specifically where we want to attach it,
if only we could do better,
hopefully we will.
Okay, what's gonna be by now off?
Yeah, talk me through what
happens in line 5, Alexa.
>> So we're gonna be reassigning
the value of JS Div, but
first we have our,
>> Ternary, right, exactly.
>> Evaluate.
>> Yes, so if we check the first bit
before the question mark and if it's true,
then we assign the second bit.
And if it's false, we assign the result
of the last part of the ternary.
So is the first bit true?
>> No
>> POST is an empty string,
it is not well.
So we jump to creating.
>> Yeah, we're gonna create
a new element again, but
this time it's going to be a div
>> Give me a div.
Let's do it,
that's created on the DOM directly.
And we now I'm just gonna do it by
analogy, the output of calling it.
I'lll put the value,
what's the output of evaluating
the document.createElement
past the argument of div.
What is gonna be assigned to
the global variable jsDiv, Alexa.
>> JavaScript object with a hidden link.
>> Beautiful.
>> To that new unattached div node.
>> All of the properties and
getter setters that go with a div type.
>> Beautiful, there it is, including text
content, and no need for a move here.
Because we're not going to
create this element unless
the conditional evaluates to false and
posts as not will.
If it is will, and we could've
done this the other way around,
to be honest, couldn't we?
Like if post is not will we have
createElement, but whatever.
And at that point we would then
create instead of every string,
and end up appending nothing,
no div element, to the page.
We've switched our mindset
from based on assuming that we
are gonna always have a div and
an input from HTML.
We then have to remove it based
on the data in JavaScript too.
Only creating elements,
only determine what the user sees,
based on specified,
explicitly defined data in JavaScript.
That is our source of truth.
You want to do it, Mark?
>> When replace children
executes every 15 milliseconds,
will the new input element lose focus-?
>> Great question.
Absolutely, and that is a line of
code that I don't include here, but
to even experiment with
this you have to do so.
We'll come to it in a second.
>> It is in the challenges.
>> It's in the challenges, exactly.
So, great, so
we will be going to challenges,
the really lovely set of
challenges built by Alexa and co.
Of these, actually let's shout them out,
specifically Amelia and
Jonathan and Alexa built out
an amazing set of challenges.
That we can push ourselves on all
this content and extend beyond.
We're gonna build out
a visual virtual DOM, but
we're not gonna implement
multi-level nodes within it.
We will within the challenges.
To actually do this in practice,
there's only one line to change,
which we're gonna see is.
If we're recreating our input element
on the DOM, every single time the user,
well, every 15 milliseconds,
it's a brand new element.
We default to not being focused.
Focus means the cursor of the user is
in that input field when it is added to
the page, when the page loads,
when it's displayed.
We default to it not being focused, we
will need to call the focus method Which
would be something here like JS
input.focus, and then execute it.
That will insert the user's
cursor in that brand new every 15
millisecond created input field.
We're gonna need to optimize for
this design, do not worry.
However, I don't put it on here because.
So I can have our great
friend online remind us.
I don't put it on here because in hard
parts, same support a second ago.
And there's gonna be a few things
like this where, if it doesn't break.
I mean, this case actually it would break,
it wouldn't work,
we'd be sort of trying to click inside
the cell, inside the input field.
It would just be bouncing us
out every 15 milliseconds.
But other than that one,
if it doesn't break.
Like to some extent my job in hard parts
is to remove anything that is extraneous,
extraneous, extraneous,
there you go, extraneous.
Remove anything that is extraneous in
order to only keep the pieces that give us
the ability to build out the mental model.
But like the diagramming is tedious.
It means you're never gonna forget
this mental model, flip an egg, and
it's the only mental model.
However, it is demanding, and so every
chance I hand to remove a conditional,
remove a line,
albeit the focus line is really important.
So shout out to our person reminding us,
if I had forgotten to say that,
that would have been bad.
But the focus line is the one where
this wouldn't function without it.
We're gonna see a few
other things like that,
where technically we're gonna apply
a call to text content getter or setter.
And we're gonna see later on an element
that doesn't have a meaningful text
content get a setter.
But we'll do it anyway in order to
not write the conditional to say if
there is not a meaningful use of text
content in this case, do not call it.
Because that's an extra line of code for
diagramming,
as long as it doesn't literally break with
the exception of this focus one, it won't.
Then, for diagramming purposes,
minimize minimize code.
But know that there'll be a few places
like that where we'll be like, this works,
the user's experience it is correct.
But would you actually do that or
would you not?
You wouldn't change the code you wrote
besides add conditionals, we'll see,
saying, don't try and call that get
a set of property on that element.
Because it doesn't have that get a set of
property, JavaScript were an error on it,
so we're fine.
But we do it for
the purposes of minimizing complexity on
already diagrams that, yes.
Anyway, all right, so where were we?
We were about to add our content.
So now we're back to normal.
But the only difference is we created
elements as opposed to use the implication
that they were always on from HTML.
HTML is switch them on,
they're always there, true by default.
We need to recognize they're
not true by default.
They are visual things a user can change,
they are content.
Therefore, give them associated data.
POST is our associated data for them.
I know it's not like, doesn't look like
we're saying jsDiv appears true or false.
But we are having jsDiv's appearance
where it does depend on post,
if the user writes will,
determined by data at any given time.
It will never display,
except in response to except caused
by underlying data tracked in jobs.
Have I said that enough times now?
I mean, again, it's like on repeat.
All right, so let's go to line 8.
Alexa, if you don't mind
keeping us going here, and
we'll keep this fairly simple now,
keep this fairly short, this bit.
>> Yes, we're gonna use the value
setter property on our JS
input object to find the linked
input note on the DOM.
And set the value to the value of our
POST variable, which is an empty string.
>> Great, and we'll do the same for.
>> The text content on the div.
>> Yeah,
text is gonna be an empty string and
then our value is also an empty string.
So Js Div text content,
what's our next line saying to do, Alexa?
>> Then we're going to set the on input
callback function on our input to our
handle input function
>> On input.
If you can verbalize
that as much as possible,
I don't even know what it would be.
Just so that as I write this there
is some lovely background noise.
[LAUGH] All right,
input is gonna have exactly as you said,
the callback handle input function
as a handler, yeah, input handler.
Input handler was what Alexa rightly said,
input handler
will be set to be a reference to that
handle input, brilliant, there it is.
Come on, called the people's,
anyone's fantastic and
technical communication's anything but
exceptional background noise.
I apologize for my anything but
endorsement of the wonderful
technical communication everyone.
And then, in line 12, now,
Alexa, what is happening here?
Sorry, go ahead, please.
>> Now we are going to find our document
object in our JavaScript memory.
>> Right.
>> And
then find the body property/getter setter.
>> Right.
>> On that object, and then invoke
the replace children method there.
And we're gonna pass in jsInput and jsDiv.
>> These two, exactly, jsInput and
jsDiv, jsInput and jsDiv.
And the way these are working is the body
has a link to the body element on the DOM.
jsInput, it has a link to
the body element on the DOM.
jsDiv has a link to the body
element on the DOM.
There it is.
And so, replace children.
Well, right now body doesn't have any.
You can see the end of
the object is there.
It doesn't have any,
nothing's on the page inside a body.
We're going to replace its children,
strange old phrasing in
the good old DOM API.
With jsInputs linked input
DOM element in C, but
with jsDiv linked in div
Element in the C++ list, and
we're going to set them as the children.
I'm just gonna show the little
arrows there, which means, Alexa,
what's gonna show up
on our actual webpage?
>> Our input and our div.
>> Beautiful, fantastic, and there it is.
Automatically, because of our layout and
render engines, amazing.
We have displayed everything through
one function, no mysteries, and
all conditional on our underlying state.